README.md, before:

# Azure Email Communication Service  for Rust (azure-ecs-rs)

Azure Email Communication Service is part of the Azure Communication Services. It provides a REST API to send emails.
For more information, see the [Azure Communication Services documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/communication-services/).

This crate provides a Rust client library for the Azure Email Communication Service. It supports the following features:
[Azure Communication Service - Email - Rest API](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/communication/email/send?tabs=HTTP)


Core Features
- Send Email
- Get Email Status

Support Authentication:
- Shared Key
- Service Principle
- Managed Identity


Before running the examples, you need to set the following environment variables:

```aiignore
# For Common
SENDER="xxx
REPLY_EMAIL="xxxx"
REPLY_EMAIL_DISPLAY="xxxx"

# For Shared Key
CONNECTION_STR="xxxxx"

# For SMTP
SMTP_USER="xxxx"
SMTP_PASSWORD="xxxx"
SMTP_SERVER="smtp.azurecomm.net"

# For Service Principle
CLIENT_ID="xx"
CLIENT_SECRET="xxx"
TENANT_ID="xxx"

# Host name
ASC_URL="https://xxxxx.asiapacific.communication.azure.com"

```
My example code is in the `examples` directory. You can run the examples with:
```sh
RUST_LOG=debug cargo run --example mail
```
How to use the library:
- Shared Key

- Get from Azure Portal
  - CONNECTION_STR
    ![Alt text](https://github.com/preedep/rust_azure_email_communication/blob/develop/images/image2.png "Connection String")
  - SENDER
    ![Alt text](https://github.com/preedep/rust_azure_email_communication/blob/develop/images/image1.png "Sender")


```rust
 let connection_str = get_env_var("CONNECTION_STR");
 let acs_client_builder = ACSClientBuilder::new().connection_string(connection_str.as_str())
```
- Service Principle
```rust
 let host_name = get_env_var("ASC_URL");
 let tenant_id = get_env_var("TENANT_ID");
 let client_id = get_env_var("CLIENT_ID");
 let client_secret = get_env_var("CLIENT_SECRET");
 
 let acs_client_builder = ACSClientBuilder::new()
                .host(host_name.as_str())
                .service_principal(
                    tenant_id.as_str(),
                    client_id.as_str(),
                    client_secret.as_str(),
                )
```
- Managed Identity
```rust
 let host_name = get_env_var("ASC_URL");
 let acs_client_builder =  ACSClientBuilder::new()
                .managed_identity()
                .host(host_name.as_str())
```

- Send Email
```rust
    let email_request = SentEmailBuilder::new()
        .sender(sender.to_owned())
        .content(EmailContent {
            subject: Some("An exciting offer especially for you!".to_string()),
            plain_text: Some("This exciting offer was created especially for you, our most loyal customer.".to_string()),
            html: Some("<html><head><title>Exciting offer!</title></head><body><h1>This exciting offer was created especially for you, our most loyal customer.</h1></body></html>".to_string()),
        })
        .recipients(Recipients {
            to: Some(vec![EmailAddress {
                email: Some(recipient.to_owned()),
                display_name: Some(display_name.to_owned()),
            }]),
            cc: None,
            b_cc: None,
        })
        .user_engagement_tracking_disabled(false)
        .build()
        .expect("Failed to build SentEmail");

    debug!("Email request: {:#?}", email_request);

    let acs_client = acs_client_builder
        .build()
        .expect("Failed to build ACSClient");

    let resp_send_email = acs_client.send_email(&email_request).await;
```

- Get Email Status
```rust
    let resp_send_email = acs_client.send_email(&email_request).await;
    match resp_send_email {
        Ok(message_resp_id) => {
            info!("Email was sent with message id: {}", message_resp_id);
            loop {
                tokio::time::sleep(time::Duration::from_secs(5)).await;
                let resp_status = acs_client.get_email_status(&message_resp_id).await;
                if let Ok(status) = resp_status {
                    info!("{}\r\n", status.to_string());
                    if matches!(
                        status,
                        EmailSendStatusType::Unknown
                            | EmailSendStatusType::Canceled
                            | EmailSendStatusType::Failed
                            | EmailSendStatusType::Succeeded
                    ) {
                        break;
                    }
                } else {
                    error!("Error getting email status: {:?}", resp_status);
                    break;
                }
            }
        }
        Err(e) => error!("Error sending email: {:?}", e),
    }
```

Commit message:

Add async functionality and examples to README
Updated the README to reflect new asynchronous email sending capabilities. Added instructions for running examples, including async email and emails with attachments.

README.md, after:

# Azure Email Communication Service  for Rust (azure-ecs-rs)

Azure Email Communication Service is part of the Azure Communication Services. It provides a REST API to send emails.
For more information, see the [Azure Communication Services documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/communication-services/).

This crate provides a Rust client library for the Azure Email Communication Service. It supports the following features:
[Azure Communication Service - Email - Rest API](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/communication/email/send?tabs=HTTP)


Core Features
- Send Email (sync and async)
- Get Email Status

Support Authentication:
- Shared Key
- Service Principle
- Managed Identity


Before running the examples, you need to set the following environment variables:

```aiignore
# For Common
SENDER="xxx
REPLY_EMAIL="xxxx"
REPLY_EMAIL_DISPLAY="xxxx"

# For Shared Key
CONNECTION_STR="xxxxx"

# For SMTP
SMTP_USER="xxxx"
SMTP_PASSWORD="xxxx"
SMTP_SERVER="smtp.azurecomm.net"

# For Service Principle
CLIENT_ID="xx"
CLIENT_SECRET="xxx"
TENANT_ID="xxx"

# Host name
ASC_URL="https://xxxxx.asiapacific.communication.azure.com"

```
My example code is in the `examples` directory. You can run the examples with:
```sh
# For simple email
RUST_LOG=debug cargo run --example mail

# For simple email with async
RUST_LOG=debug cargo run --example mail_async

# For email with attachment
RUST_LOG=debug cargo run --example mail_attach
```
How to use the library:
- Shared Key

- Get from Azure Portal
  - CONNECTION_STR
    ![Alt text](https://github.com/preedep/rust_azure_email_communication/blob/develop/images/image2.png "Connection String")
  - SENDER
    ![Alt text](https://github.com/preedep/rust_azure_email_communication/blob/develop/images/image1.png "Sender")


```rust
 let connection_str = get_env_var("CONNECTION_STR");
 let acs_client_builder = ACSClientBuilder::new().connection_string(connection_str.as_str())
```
- Service Principle
```rust
 let host_name = get_env_var("ASC_URL");
 let tenant_id = get_env_var("TENANT_ID");
 let client_id = get_env_var("CLIENT_ID");
 let client_secret = get_env_var("CLIENT_SECRET");
 
 let acs_client_builder = ACSClientBuilder::new()
                .host(host_name.as_str())
                .service_principal(
                    tenant_id.as_str(),
                    client_id.as_str(),
                    client_secret.as_str(),
                )
```
- Managed Identity
```rust
 let host_name = get_env_var("ASC_URL");
 let acs_client_builder =  ACSClientBuilder::new()
                .managed_identity()
                .host(host_name.as_str())
```

- Send Email
```rust
    let email_request = SentEmailBuilder::new()
        .sender(sender.to_owned())
        .content(EmailContent {
            subject: Some("An exciting offer especially for you!".to_string()),
            plain_text: Some("This exciting offer was created especially for you, our most loyal customer.".to_string()),
            html: Some("<html><head><title>Exciting offer!</title></head><body><h1>This exciting offer was created especially for you, our most loyal customer.</h1></body></html>".to_string()),
        })
        .recipients(Recipients {
            to: Some(vec![EmailAddress {
                email: Some(recipient.to_owned()),
                display_name: Some(display_name.to_owned()),
            }]),
            cc: None,
            b_cc: None,
        })
        .user_engagement_tracking_disabled(false)
        .build()
        .expect("Failed to build SentEmail");

    debug!("Email request: {:#?}", email_request);

    let acs_client = acs_client_builder
        .build()
        .expect("Failed to build ACSClient");

    let resp_send_email = acs_client.send_email(&email_request).await;
```

- Get Email Status
```rust
    let resp_send_email = acs_client.send_email(&email_request).await;
    match resp_send_email {
        Ok(message_resp_id) => {
            info!("Email was sent with message id: {}", message_resp_id);
            loop {
                tokio::time::sleep(time::Duration::from_secs(5)).await;
                let resp_status = acs_client.get_email_status(&message_resp_id).await;
                if let Ok(status) = resp_status {
                    info!("{}\r\n", status.to_string());
                    if matches!(
                        status,
                        EmailSendStatusType::Unknown
                            | EmailSendStatusType::Canceled
                            | EmailSendStatusType::Failed
                            | EmailSendStatusType::Succeeded
                    ) {
                        break;
                    }
                } else {
                    error!("Error getting email status: {:?}", resp_status);
                    break;
                }
            }
        }
        Err(e) => error!("Error sending email: {:?}", e),
    }
```
